Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and
share the video to help spread this free series
of videos.
Thanks for your help.
In this video we will cover IPv6.
As you already know, up to this point in the
course we have been covering only IPv4.
But IPv6 is the future, and it is starting
to take over networks all over the world.
IPv6 brings multiple improvements over IPv4,
but there is one main reason for the switch
to IPv6.
IPv6 is covered in a few areas of the official
exam topics list.
Topic 1.8 says you must be able to configure
and verify IPv6 addressing and prefixes, and
1.9 says you must be able to compare various
IPv6 address types.
You should also be able to configure and verify
the same kinds of static routes in IPv6, that
we already covered in IPv4.
I considered trying to fit all of this into
a single video, but have decided to split
it up.
A lot of CCNA candidates don’t feel confident
about their IPv6 knowledge.
I think that’s because we spend so much
time learning IPv4, but then so many courses
just briefly cover IPv6 and then never mention
it again.
Let’s take our time to cover IPv6, and make
sure you feel confident about answering IPv6
questions on the exam.
Here’s what we’ll cover in this video.
First, let’s review hexadecimal.
I told you about hexadecimal when we covered
MAC addresses, but let’s make sure you really
understand hexadecimal, because IPv6 addresses
are written in hexadecimal too.
Then I’ll give an overview of why IPv6 is
necessary, why we are starting to move away
from IPv4.
I’ll give you a basic overview of IPv6,
specifically IPv6 addresses.
Finally I’ll show you how to configure IPv6
addresses on Cisco devices.
Watch until the end of the video for a bonus
practice question from Boson ExSim, the best
practice exams for the CCNA.
I used them to study for my exams, and they
are the best practice exams out there.
If you want to get Boson ExSim, follow the
link in the video description.
Before talking about IPv6, you may be wondering,
what about IPv5?
I think I mentioned this earlier in the course,
but here’s another quick review.
Internet Stream Protocol was developed in
the late 1970s, although it was never actually
introduced for public use.
It was never called IPv5, but it used a value
of 5 in the version field of the IP header.
If you remember, Day 10 of this course covered
the IPv4 header, and the very first field
is the version field.
IPv4 uses a value of 4, and Internet Stream
Protocol used a value of 5.
So, to avoid confusion, when the successor
to IPv4 was being developed it was named IPv6,
and it uses a value of 6 in the Version field
of the header.
Now let’s review hexadecimal.
The three numbering systems you should know
for the CCNA are binary, also called base
2.
0b can be used as a prefix before a binary
number, so you know that the number is binary.
For example, look at this number.
A 1 and a 0.
Is that decimal 10?
Or binary 1 0, which is equal to decimal 2?
Or is it perhaps hexadecimal 1 0, which is
equivalent to decimal 16?
We can’t know.
By using the prefix 0b, we can make it clear
that this is a binary number.
Now, why is ‘base 2’ another name for
binary?
It’s because there are only two available
digits in binary.
0 and 1.
All numbers are represented using just these
two digits.
But you’re already familiar with binary.
The next numbering system is decimal, or base
10.
You can use the prefix 0d to indicate decimal.
As the name ‘base 10’ suggests, there
are 10 available digits.
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9.
Finally, there is hexadecimal, also known
as base 16.
You can use the prefix 0x to indicate hexadecimal,
as I have mentioned a couple times already
in the course.
These are the 16 digits available in hexadecimal,
0 to 9 are the same as decimal, and then A,
B, C, D, E, and F are used as well.
Here’s a chart comparing the three, from
0 up to decimal 15.
First, notice that up to 9, decimal and hexadecimal
are the same.
However, the decimal system then runs out
of digits so it has to add a second column,
and ten is written as 1 0.
Hexadecimal expresses the same value with
a single digit, A. 11 is B, 12 is C, 13 is
D, 14 is E, and 15 is F. Okay, now let me
point out a few other things.
Notice that these binary numbers have leading
0s at the front.
For example, decimal 3 is written as 0 0 1
1 instead of just 1 1.
You don’t actually have to do this in binary,
you can just write it as 1 1.
So, why did I write all of these numbers as
four digits, even though the leading 0s are
unnecessary?
It’s because I want to emphasize that each
hexadecimal digit contains 4 bits of information.
For example, the maximum value of four binary
bits, 1 1 1 1, gives us the maximum hexadecimal
digit, F.
This is very important for converting between
binary and hexadecimal, and decimal and hexadecimal.
From this chart, I recommend memorizing the
decimal to hexadecimal conversions.
It’s not difficult, just remember that 10
is A, 11 is B, 12 is C, 13 is D, 14 is E,
and 15 is F. Also, be able to convert between
binary and decimal.
You already know that, it shouldn’t be a
problem.
If it is a problem, go back and watch the
IPv4 addressing and subnetting videos for
review.
If you can do those two things, convert between
decimal and hexadecimal up to 15, and convert
between decimal and binary, you’ll have
no problem converting either decimal or binary
to hexadecimal.
Let’s walk through some conversions.
Binary 1101 1011 is equal to what in hexadecimal?
So, this is 8 binary bits.
Remember, each hexadecimal digit contains
4 bits of information.
So, split the number into 4-bit groups, 1101
and 1011.
Then, convert each of those 4-bit groups to
decimal.
1101 is 8 plus 4 plus 1, so 13.
1011 is 8 plus 2 plus 1, so 11.
Then convert those decimal numbers to hexadecimal.
You should have these conversions memorized.
13 is D, and 11 is B. Simply put those two
hexadecimal digits together, and you have
the answer.
Binary 1101 1011 is equal to hexadecimal DB.
To check, you can use a calculator.
For example, from the Windows 10 calculator
app, click the top left menu button, then
select the programmer calculator.
In the programmer calculator, you can select
between hexadecimal, decimal, octal, which
is base 8, and binary.
I selected hexadecimal and typed in DB.
As you can see, it is equal to binary 1101
1011.
If you don’t use windows 10, your calculator
app probably has a similar option to the programmer
mode.
Or, you can just do a Google search for a
binary, decimal, and hexadecimal converter.
In the real world, you’d use a calculator
to do any conversions between binary, decimal,
and hexadecimal.
However, it’s important to be able to do
the conversions yourself, to make sure you
actually understand the concepts.
Let’s do a few more practice questions for
binary to hexadecimal.
Pause the video to try this one out yourself,
do the steps as written.
Let’s check.
First split the number into 4-bit groups.
Convert each group to decimal.
Convert each decimal number to hexadecimal.
And there’s the answer, binary 0010 1111
is equal to hexadecimal 2F.
We’ll do one more for binary to hex.
Pause the video to try it out.
Let’s check.
First split the number into 4-bit groups.
Convert each group to decimal.
Convert each decimal number to hexadecimal.
And there’s the answer, binary 1000 0001
is equal to hexadecimal 8 1.
How about converting from hexadecimal to binary?
Basically, it’s just the reverse process.
Convert to decimal, then to binary.
For example, what’s hexadecimal EC in binary?
First, split up the hexadecimal digits.
Then convert them to decimal.
E is 14 and C is 12.
Then convert each decimal number to binary.
And that’s the answer, hexadecimal EC is
equal to binary 1110 1100.
Okay, here’s another one.
Pause the video to try it out yourself, convert
hexadecimal 2B to binary.
Let’s check.
First, split up the hexadecimal digits.
Then convert them to decimal.
2 is 2 and B is 11.
Then convert each decimal number to binary.
And that’s the answer, hexadecimal 2B is
equal to binary 0010 1011.
Okay, last one.
Pause the video to try it out yourself, convert
hexadecimal D7 to binary.
Let’s check.
First, split up the hexadecimal digits.
Then convert them to decimal.
D is 13 and 7 is 7.
Then convert each decimal number to binary.
And that’s the answer, hexadecimal D7 is
equal to binary 1101 0111.
Okay, that’s all for the conversion practice,
it’s not the main focus of this video.
If you don’t feel comfortable converting
between them yet, do some more practice.
Write out a random 8-bit, 1-byte, number and
convert it to hexadecimal.
Do the opposite too.
Also try it with numbers that aren’t 8 bits,
see if you can figure it out.
Now, let’s move on to the next topic.
And the next topic is this, ‘Why IPv6’?
The main reason is that there simply aren’t
enough IPv4 addresses are available.
How many IPv4 addresses are there?
An IPv4 address is 32 bits long, so that means
there are 4 billion 294 million 967 thousand
296 IPv4 addresses available.
That may seem like a lot, but in our modern
world where the Internet is everywhere, it’s
simply not enough.
When IPv4 was being designed 30 years ago,
the creators had no idea the Internet would
be as large as it is today, they thought 32
bits would provide more than enough addresses.
However, we have known about the IPv4 address
exhaustion problem for a long time, and several
techniques have been used to preserve the
space.
VLSM, variable-length subnet masks is one
of the techniques that allows IPv4 address
space to be preserved.
Private IPv4 addresses and NAT, Network Address
Translation, are two others that have made
a huge difference as well.
Both of those will be covered soon in the
course.
Those techniques have been very useful in
preserving the IPv4 address space, however
they are just short-term solutions.
The long-term solution is to transition to
IPv6.
Let me briefly explain how IPv4 addresses
are assigned.
IPv4 address assignments are controlled by
IANA, the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority.
I mentioned IANA in the last video about TCP
and UDP, also.
IANA distributes IPv4 address space to various
RIRs, Regional Internet Registries, which
then assign them to companies that need them.
For example, an Internet service provider
would ask its local RIR to assign it IP addresses
which can then be used by its customers.
This is a map showing the various RIRs.
To be honest, I don’t know the proper pronunciation
of each of the names, but AFRINIC controls
Africa, APNIC controls Asia-Pacific, ARIN
controls Canada, many Caribbean and North
Atlantic islands, and the US, LACNIC controls
Latin America and the Caribbean, and RIPE
NCC controls Europe, the Middle East, and
parts of Central Asia.
However, these RIRs are almost all out of
IPv4 addresses.
For example, in September 2015 ARIN declared
exhaustion of the ARIN IPv4 address pool.
They don’t have any more addresses to assign,
unless a company goes out of business and
ARIN can reclaim their addresses, for example.
Here’s another one, in August 2020, LACNIC
announced that it had made its final IPv4
allocation.
The other RIRs have similar problems, too.
So, as you can see the situation is pretty
serious, there just aren’t enough IPv4 addresses
for our modern world.
We need something capable of supporting our
inter-connected world now and far into the
future.
That is IPv6.
Let’s finally get into the specifics.
There is actually a lot of interesting history
about IPv4 address exhaustion and IPv6, but
that’s enough for this video.
I think you can see why we need to transition
to IPv6.
If you want to read a little about it, search
for ‘IPv4 address exhaustion’ on Wikipedia.
So, let’s talk about IPv6.
An IPv6 address is 128 bits.
That’s 4 times the number of bits in an
IPv4 address, which is 32 bits.
At first, you might think that 4 times the
number of bits means that there are 4 times
the number of addresses.
That’s wrong.
Every additional bit DOUBLES the number of
possible addresses.
32 bits allows for about 4 billion addresses.
33 bits would allow about 8 billion, 34 bits
would allow about 16 billion, etc.
So, how many IPv6 addresses are there?
There are 340 undecillion, 282 decillion,
366 noncillion, 920 octillion, 938 septillion,
463 sextillion, 463 quintillion, 374 quadrillion,
607 trillion, 431 billion, 768 million, 211
thousand and 456 IPv6 addresses.
Yes, I had to search on Google to learn how
to say that number.
But no, you don’t have to memorize it.
For comparison, here’s the number of IPv4
addresses again.
Here’s an example IPv6 address in binary.
That’s a lot of 1s and 0s.
If you write that in dotted decimal like an
IPv4 address, it looks like this.
However, as I’ve already said Ipv6 addresses
aren’t written in dotted decimal, they are
written in hexadecimal.
Here’s that same address written in hexadecimal.
An IPv6 address is 128 bits, and as I said
each hexadecimal digit contains 4 bits of
information.
128 bits divided by 4 is 32.
So, an IPv6 address is written as 32 hexadecimal
characters, divided into 8 groups of 4 using
colons.
This is still longer and more difficult to
read and remember than an IPv4 address, but
that’s unavoidable.
There is 4 times the amount of information
in this address, compared to an IPv4 address.
But there’s some good news.
IPv6 addresses use the ‘slash’ notation
to indicate the prefix length, even when configuring
the address in the Cisco IOS CLI.
No more dotted decimal subnet masks.
This /64, for example, means the first half
of the address would be the network portion,
and the second half would be the host portion.
In addition, there are a couple methods to
shorten IPv6 addresses to make them simpler.
Let’s look at those methods to shorten IPv6
addresses.
First up, leading 0s can be removed.
Look at this IPv6 address.
‘Leading 0s’ are any 0s at the beginning
of any of the quartets of 4 hexadecimal digits.
These are the leading 0s in this address.
So, we can simply remove them.
Now the address can be written like this.
The 0s are still part of the address, but
there’s no need to write them, and it looks
simpler like this.
Okay, there’s one more technique to shorten
an IPv6 address.
Consecutive quartets of all 0s can be replaced
with a double colon.
For example in the address below, there are
four consecutive quartets of all 0s.
You can shorten the address like this, replacing
those quartets with a double colon.
Why are you able to do this?
It’s because we know an IPv6 address is
8 quartets in length.
We can only see four quartets now, so we know
the double colon means that there are four
quartets of all 0s.
But let’s not stop there.
You can combine both methods, removing leading
0s and using the double colon.
Now this address looks much easier to handle.
But, there’s a limitation here.
Consecutive quartets of 0s can only be abbreviated
once in an IPv6 address.
Why is that?
Well, look at this address here.
You might try to shorten it like this.
But now we have a problem.
We know there should be 8 quartets in total,
so there are five quartets of all 0s.
But how many quartets of 0s are here?
2?
3?
We can’t know.
How about here?
Maybe there are 2 quartets on the left and
3 on the right, or maybe 3 on the left and
2 on the right.
So, this is why we can only abbreviate the
all-0 quartets once in an address.
Instead, we should shorten the address like
this.
The left side has three all-0 quartets, so
I replaced them with a double colon.
On the right side, which has two all-0 quartets,
I simply removed the leading 0s.
Here’s a few questions to practice shortening
IPv6 addresses.
Pause the video and try to complete each.
Okay, here are the answers.
Here’s the first one, you’re able to remove
leading 0s and use the double colon.
Next one.
Note that there are two sets of consecutive
0s, but you can only use the double colon
to replace one set.
Okay, next one.
Like the previous two, you’re able to remove
leading 0s and use the double colon.
Next one.
There are some leading 0s you can remove in
this one, but not consecutive quartets of
all 0s.
Okay, last one.
You’re able to replace five quartets of
0s with the double colon.
You should also be able to take a shortened
IPv6 address and expand it into a full IPv6
address.
Here’s an example of how to do that.
First, put leading 0s where needed, remember
that all quartets should have 4 hexadecimal
characters, that’s why they’re called
quartets.
Where can we put leading 0s in this example
shortened address?
These three quartets here.
So, now the address looks like this.
But we’re not finished.
If a double colon is used, we should replace
it with all-0 quartets, and make sure there
are 8 quartets in total.
There is a double colon here, so we can expand
the address further.
How many quartets are there?
There are 5.
Actually there are 8, but currently only 5
are written.
To make 8 total quartets, simply add three
quartets of 0s.
Here are a few practice questions for expanding
shortened IPv6 addresses.
Pause the video to solve them.
Okay, here are the answers.
First one.
Second one.
Third one.
Fourth one.
And the fifth one.
I will talk about different IPv6 address types
in another video, but each of these addresses
is a different type of address.
IPv4 has different kinds of addresses like
multicast addresses, loopback addresses, etc,
and so does IPv6.
But as I said, that’s a topic for another
video.
Next up, let’s see how to find the IPv6
prefix, the network address, from a particular
host address.
We’ve already done this before for IPv4.
Change all of the host bits to 0, and then
you have the prefix, the network address.
But let’s try it out for IPv6.
Typically, an enterprise requesting IPv6 addresses
from their ISP will receive a /48 block.
Also, typically IPv6 subnets use a /64 prefix
length.
So, the enterprise received a /48 block, but
the usual prefix length is /64.
This means that an enterprise has 16 bits
to use to make subnets.
And the remaining 64 bits can be used for
hosts.
I think an example will make this clearer.
here’s an IPv6 address.
This part in blue is the /48 block assigned
by the ISP, it’s called the ‘global routing
prefix’.
Note that this example is for the IPv6 ‘global
unicast’ address type.
As I said before, there are multiple IPv6
address types which I will cover in another
video.
But these ‘global unicast’ addresses are
the regular IPv6 addresses that hosts can
use over the Internet, they aren’t private
addresses, or multicast addresses, etc.
Okay, the next 16 bits, 4 hex digits, are
called the ‘subnet identifier’.
Because the enterprise received a /48 block
from the ISP, but IPv6 addresses usually use
a /64 prefix length, these 16 bits are free
to use to make different subnets.
Together, these two parts make the ‘network
portion’ of the address, the IPv6 network
prefix.
Then the last 64 bits are the host bits.
That is a huge amount of hosts per subnet,
you’ll never need that many.
But the convention is to use a /64 prefix
length.
However, that doesn’t mean you’ll only
ever see /64 prefix lengths.
So, we’ll practice using IPv6 addresses
with various prefix lengths.
Finding the prefix of an IPv6 address with
a /64 prefix length is easy.
Simply make the second half of the address
all 0s.
That’s what I did here, and notice I shortened
the address by removing a leading 0 and replaced
the host portion, which is all 0s, with a
double colon.
Even if the prefix length isn’t /64, if
the prefix length is a multiple of 4 it’s
easy to find the prefix length.
Why is that?
It’s because each hexadecimal character
is 4 bits.
56 is a multiple of 4, so let me show you
how to find the prefix of this IPv6 address.
This first quartet is the first 16 bits of
the address.
This one brings it to 32 bits.
48 bits.
This 2 contains the next 4 bits, so 52.
And this 1 contains another 4 bits, so 56
bits.
So, these first 14 characters are the network
portion of the address, the prefix.
Everything after is the host portion, so we
can change them all to 0 to find the prefix.
Here it is, after removing leading 0s and
using the double colon.
Let me point out that you can’t remove these
0s.
Even though they are part of the host portion
of the address, they are not leading 0s so
you can’t remove them.
For example, if you were to shorten the address
like this, removing those two 0s, if you add
the leading 0s back the prefix would be this,
which is a totally different network address
than the original one.
So, remember that point, you can only remove
the ‘leading’ 0s.
So, that’s all quite simple.
Find where the network portion ends, and change
all digits after it to 0.
But with an IPv6 address like this you need
to go through a couple more steps.
The prefix length is /93, which isn’t a
multiple of 4.
So, that means that the network portions ends
in the middle of one of the hexadecimal digits.
Let’s find which one.
16 bits, 32 bits, 48 bits, 64 bits, 80 bits,
84, 88, and this ‘7’ brings us up to 92
bits.
So, the network portion includes all of these
characters, plus the first bit of this B.
So, in order to properly write out the network
prefix, we need to look into the binary.
As you know, hexadecimal B is equal to decimal
11.
Decimal 11 is written as 1011 in binary.
Only this first bit is part of the network
portion of the address, so let’s change
all of the other bits to 0.
Now we have binary 1000.
Change that back to decimal, which is 8.
It’s also written as 8 in hexadecimal.
So, when we write out the network prefix,
we have to change the ‘B’ to an ‘8’,
because we changed the host bits all to 0.
So, here’s the network prefix.
Notice the ‘8’ instead of the ‘B’.
I hope you can see the importance of really
understanding binary.
If you don’t know binary, it would be tough
for you to know that the B becomes an 8 when
all of the host bits are changed to 0.
The same goes for IPv4.
If you don’t know binary, you can’t really
understand IPv4 addressing and subnetting.
Here are some practice questions, find the
prefix of each of these IPv6 addresses.
Pause the video now to do that.
Okay, here are the answers.
First one.
Second one.
Third one.
Fourth one.
And fifth one.
Note that you don’t have to write out the
shortened version, you can write out the whole
address if you prefer.
If you still want some more practice, try
writing out some random IPv6 addresses with
random prefix lengths yourself, and then try
to find the prefix of each address.
So, we’ve only covered the absolute basics
of IPv6, specifically IPv6 addresses.
But I want to include a lab with each lecture
video as often as possible, so let’s cover
some very basic IPv6 configuration.
I’ll just show you how to configure IPv6
addresses on router interfaces, and then in
the next video you can try it out in Packet
Tracer.
So, R1 has three interfaces, each connected
to a different subnet.
2001:db8:0:0::/64 on the G0/0 interface, 0:1::/64
on G0/1, and 0:2::/64 on G0/2.
In this example, the company was assigned
a /48 address block, and is using the last
quartet of the prefix to make different subnets.
Just a side point, you may be wondering why
I’ve been using the 2001:db8 range a lot.
That’s because this range of IPv6 addresses
has been reserved for examples and documentation.
They should never actually be used in real
networks, but you’re free to use them in
examples like this.
So, here’s the configuration.
First up, you have to use the command IPV6
UNICAST-ROUTING.
This command allows the routers to perform
IPv6 routing.
If you don’t enable this, it’s not going
to actually forward IPv6 packets.
Next up, I configured the G0/0 interface.
The command to configure an IPv6 address is
IPV6 ADDRESS, follow by the address and prefix
length.
You’ll notice that a lot of IPv6 commands
are the same as in IPv4, except instead of
‘IP’ the command uses ‘IPV6’.
Also notice that you can use the shortened
version of the IPv6 address, the router will
understand.
Remember to use NO SHUTDOWN to enable the
interface, too.
I did the same thing on G0/1, and then G0/2,
except this time I typed out the entire address.
You can use the whole address, the shortened
address, or even a partially shortened address,
the router will understand what you mean.
Now let’s confirm the configurations.
I used the command SHOW IPV6 INTERFACE BRIEF.
Again, same as the IPv4 command, you just
have to use ‘IPv6’.
There are a few things to point out here.
First up, notice that the shortened version
of the address is displayed, not all 32 hex
digits.
Actually, the address on the G0/0 interface
is shortened even more than the shortened
address I typed.
To emphasize that the first four quartets
are the network portion, I typed out these
two 0s here in the network diagram and when
I entered the command.
But they can be included in the double colon
also, if you want to shorten the address as
much as possible.
Okay, next thing to point out, something you
probably already noticed, each of these interfaces
has two IPv6 addresses, even though we only
configured one.
These are called ‘link-local’ addresses,
and they are automatically configured on an
interface when you configure an IPv6 address,
when IPv6 is enabled on the interface.
I will cover these in Day 32 when I cover
the various IPv6 address types, but if you
want to read about them before that Wikipedia
has a good article about them.
IPv4 has link-local addresses as well, although
they aren’t automatically enabled on IPv4
interfaces.
Anyway, as I said I’ll cover those in Day
32.
Before moving on to the quiz let’s review
what we covered in today’s video.
First up we reviewed hexadecimal and practiced
converting between it and binary.
Although we briefly covered hexadecimal when
learning about MAC addresses, for IPv6 it’s
even more important to be comfortable with
it.
Then I introduced why IPv6 is necessary.
Basically, there aren’t enough IPv4 addresses
for our modern world.
I covered the basics of IPv6, and the main
focus of today’s video was on IPv6 addresses,
which are 128-bits in length and usually written
using hexadecimal.
Finally I showed you the basic commands to
enable IPv6 on a router and then configure
IPv6 addresses on an interface.
There is still a lot more that we have to
cover about IPv6, but I hope this video was
a good start.
Make to sure watch until the end of the quiz
for a bonus question from Boson ExSim, the
best practice exams for the CCNA.
They’re the practice exams I used to prepare
for the CCNA and CCNP exams, and they really
are the best.
If you want to get ExSim, follow the link
in the video description.
Okay, let’s move on to question 1 of the
quiz.
Which of the following are valid IPv6 addresses?
Select three.
Here are the options.
Pause the video now to find the answers, only
three of them are valid IPv6 addresses.
Okay, let’s check the answers.
The valid IPv6 addresses are A, B, and E.
Why is C invalid?
It has a G in the fourth quartet.
IPv6 addresses use hexadecimal, which only
includes 0 to 9 and A, B, C, D, E, and F.
Why is D invalid?
It has nine quartets.
An IPv6 address should have only 8 quartets
of four hexadecimal digits each, separated
by colons.
And how about F?
It’s using the double colon twice.
Remember, you can only use the double colon
to shorten an IPv6 address once.
Okay, let’s go to question 2.
Which of the following is a correctly-abbreviated
version of the IPv6 address below?
Here are the four options.
Pause the video now to select the correct
one.
The correct answer is D. All of these abbreviations
involve removing 0s, but remember that you
can only remove ‘leading’ 0s from an IPv6
address to shorten it, the 0s at the beginning
of the quartet.
So, only D is a correct abbreviation of the
address.
Let’s go to question 3.
Which of the following commands must be used
to enable a router to perform IPv6 routing?
A, IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING from interface config
mode.
B, IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING from global config
C, IPV6 ROUTING from global config mode.
Or D, IPV6 ROUTING from interface config mode.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
The answer is B. IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING, entered
in global config mode, must be used to enable
the router to perform IPv6 routing.
Okay, we had lots of practice questions earlier
in the video so let’s finish the quiz here.
Now let’s do a bonus question from Boson
ExSim for CCNA.
Okay, here's today's Boson ExSim practice
question.
This question actually covers something we
didn't cover in the video, but I think you
can answer it.
So here's the question.
What command would you issue on RouterA so
that traffic can be routed to RouterC?
Select the best answer.
So, this is a question about static routing
using IPv6.
However, the IPv6 static route command is
exactly the same as in IPv4.
Like I said in the video, a lot of IPv6 commands
are like that.
The only difference is instead of IP ROUTE
it's IPV6 ROUTE.
So, the command is IPV6 ROUTE, followed by
the destination, you can see the network address
and the prefix length here, and then the next
hop.
Okay, so that's the IPv6 static route command.
So, knowing that, you should be able to answer
this question.
So pause the video here and try to find the
correct answer.
Okay, hopefully you found the answer.
So let's check it out.
So, RouterA needs to reach RouterC, which
is in the 2001:DB8:2::/64 network.
So, that should be the destination in the
static route command.
So that means the correct answer is either
B or D, because A and C have the destination
2001:DB8:1::/64, which is not correct.
So, is the correct answer B or D?
Let's see, so the next hop should be RouterB's
interface in the 2001:DB8:1:: network, so
that is ::2.
So, which one has the correct next hop?
This one here, B. 2001:DB8:1::2, that looks
correct.
How about D?
The next hop is 2001:DB8:2::2, that is not
correct.
That would mean RouterC is the next hop, but
RouterA doesn't even know how to reach RouterC
yet.
Okay, so B should be the correct answer.
I will click on 'show answer'.
And indeed that is correct.
So here is Boson's explanation.
You can pause the video here to read that.
Also notice there is some Cisco documentation
included.
This is available free online and it's a great
study resource.
And also it shows you which category of the
exam topics this question is from.
And it is from 'IP Connectivity'.
Okay, so that is an example question from
Boson ExSim for CCNA.
If you're looking for CCNA practice exams,
Boson ExSim is really the best you can get.
These are fantastic practice exams.
I used them when preparing for my CCNA and
CCNP, so I highly recommend them.
If you want to get a copy of Boson ExSim,
follow the link in the video description.
There are supplementary materials for this
video.
There is a flashcard deck to use with the
software ‘Anki’.
There will also be a packet tracer practice
lab so you can get some hands-on practice.
That will be in the next video.
Sign up for my mailing list via the link in
the description, and I’ll send you all of
the flashcards and packet tracer lab files
for the course.
Before finishing today’s video I want to
thank my JCNP-level channel members.
To join, please click the ‘Join’ button
under the video.
Thank you to Magrathea, Njabulo, Benjamin,
Deepak, Tshepiso, Justin, Loki, TheGunguy,
Nil, Prakaash, Nasir, Erlison, Apogee, Wasseem,
Marko, Florian, Daming, Kone, Joshua, Jhilmar,
Samil, Ed, Value, John, Funnydart, Scott,
Hassan, Gerrard, Joyce, Marek, Velvijaykum,
C Mohd, Johan, Mark, Yousif, Sidi, Boson Software,
Charlesetta, Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance.
Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly,
but thank you so much for your support.
One of you is still displaying as Channel
failed to load, if this is you please let
me know and I’ll see if YouTube can fix
it.
This is the list of JCNP-level members at
the time of recording by the way, October
8th 2020, if you signed up recently and your
name isn’t on here don’t worry, you’ll
be in future videos.
Thank you for watching.
Please subscribe to the channel, like the
video, leave a comment, and share the video
with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links
in the description.
I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept
BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips via the
Brave browser.
That's all for now.